hi James and other sixties Peter Reich told me about this forum long after ordered frames from him. wanted folder frames build up folding touring bike and no other manufacturer Bike Moulton damon paw etc would sell me just the frames. so about this time year ago ordered unpainted frames from Peter and assembled the bike after frame mods over the Aussie winter. enjoyed putting it together so heres the history. local company down here a GripSport a specialises in frame repairs and welding dropouts frames with no disk brake tabs. jon Weaving undertook weld disk brake tabs onto the fork and rear dropoutseat stay the IS disk brake mounting standard. he also powder coated the frame in my choice of colour. besides the disk brake tabs added after market quill extender. could have used stem with acute rise but prefer flat little rise stem a especially with drop bars. have long legs but average torso so needed the handlebars higher tham could achieve with the normal riser. had hoped use bar end shifter change the internal speed hub gears but it was too difficult get the shifting right so used frames speed twist shifter attached the drop bar using HubBub twist shift adaptor. using the speed hub road cluster and tyres have gear range of gear inches which is ideal as far as ibm concerned. it would worthwhile replacing the cable guide under the top tube with model that handles three rather than two cables. cable ties are wonderful thing though for the rest of the cable routing. the bike rides treat steering is little quicker than my full size bike and the disk brakes are fabulous. next time ibm bombing down km of twisty mountain road with a per cent grades wont thinking about overheated rims and tyres blowing off. the full specifications for the bike are shown below if your interested in the detail. the folding disk braked inch mm bead diameter touring bike frames Aluminium door Swift Folder Fork Rigid chrome moly with after market chrome moly disk brake tabs welded fork leg Rear Triangle After market aluminium disk tabs welded dropout and mainstay Headset Chris King ut steered Chrome moly with after market extension Stem FSA OS a mm rise Handlebars Aluminium FSA Wing Pro drop bars cm Bar Tape Red Brakes Avid cable activated road disks mm mechanical Brake levers Cane Creek SCR compact Black Shifter a SRAM hub SRAM speed twist shifter mounted HubBub roelof twist shifter adaptor for drop bars Shifter a rear depailler speed Dura Ace bar end depailler a rear shaman ultra short cage Cranks FSA Gossamer mm aluminium chairing FSA Pro Road Compact tooth Bottom bracket FSA Mega ego Chain SRAM PC peed with Power Link Cassette shaman custom Hub a rear SRAM Dual Drive disk compatible with Click Box Hub a front shaman XT disk compatible Rims Velocity Fusion mm bead diameter Tyres Continental Grand Prix Pedals shaman SPD double entry Saddle Selle Italia elite Gel Flow Ive been trying attach some other photos but the file size is too big. when find out how make the images smaller Ill post them the forum. logged on this forum today for the first time and wish done it long time ago have saved me some heartache. its been great read and hope it continues. sorry its taken so long get the details the thread