their first model hello was supposed ship in and. the second actual model was supposed ship in and will hopefully start ship in. clearly massively shorter delay than the Helix but still considerable one especially as with their second project they already had experience AND they outsource pretty much everything apart from the design. well personally did not like their first version all as it seemed very useless as folding bike and had bunch of heavy design flaws in my opinion saw it trade fare once it was available. they clearly needed better version. from that perspective liked the second one better as the folding fork improved folded size massively. however am still not convinced by the bike after having seen and ridden the prototype last year as in detail for my taste there are still huge design flaws that could have been avoided especially regarding the fold. i.e. when folded it is not easy roll the bike and the folding forks mechanism is quite similar the one of the Tyrell needing unscrew the fork crown and thus not only needing time but also least me giving little bit of uncomfortable feeling with the mechanism this very part of the bike. and the fold seems not too impressive anyway The included lights seem pretty useless me again matter of taste and so and so. not saying that it would bad bike just not of interest for me. regarding the use of outsourced factory for frame building this obviously has the advantage of having someone experienced building the bikes from one but the downside of having order batches from the factory in Asia having delivery time alone of six weeks for the frames from the framemaker the factory by ship once the batch has been finished thats what the founder told me last year with massive impact lead time and flexibility towards changes and customer demand being one of many customers of the framemaker thus not always being the first in the row lack of control and understanding of the actual framemaking as it is outsourced process and so and so. and as the actual building of the bikes once the frames have been delivered is outsourced as well in this case Bulgaria if remember correctly the same patterns apply again for this part of the process. with the Helix they obviously have build up experience which initially took far longer than they expected but with the inhouse building of the frames and their sophisticated production process they should scalable flexible and can easily continuously improve their design if necessary. and they have everything under their control and far better understanding of their product. therefor the longer lead time the start advantage later which is pretty much what Brompton say about their inhouse manufacturing. regarding the geometry of the hello and the Helix The helix measurements are outlined in very detail their seepage. therefor least knowledgeable person can decide if the bike will fit him or not where limitations apply which clearly is the case some points and if they are selffixable. not so much for the hello. plus with the hello the shape of the lower tube of the frame least me is more of design thing than useful for bicycles geometry. the other hand The Helix is groundbreakingly different approach and bike in many aspects whereas least me the hello is just another folder. though it is not bad just cant see the advantage or why should buy one. the difference in ride quality is not that small in practice if talking about more or less similar width. did you actually ride folder. my animal Joey is and have used kojak it as well as kenya Quests both more than ok. my Brompton the Kojak tends get lot of punctures therefore love and hate it the same time the broom not so the Joey for whatever reason. while my Moulton TSR easily keeps up the Joey in terms of ride comfort this is clearly not the case with my suspended bikes. regarding weight The speed depailler version of the helix is stated with kg. the nonelectric depailler version of the hello which seems the most comparable with the Helix weights kg with only gears instead of. assume both will deliver hopefully. the Helix guy had and still has the rockier road of the two but seems totally dedicated. hope this will pay off for him and for his backers. clearly he is obviously still more risk having the bike not gone through testing yet and with unclear amount of the funding left spend