

Thanks! Yes it is a very nice ride. Everything sort of fits together. 
The frame has a great patina (that can not be catched on photo), it looks like it has been ridden and taken good care of for years and years. That matches great with the look of the antique saddle and the wing-nuts etc.
Interesting detail: I think the original rear fitting of the frame was 120mm and has been fitted to 130mm later (it was 130 when I got it). I re-fitted it to 120mm track-bike width which is a clear commitment to singlespeed/fixed. Is anybody familiar with the measurements of the early swifts? 

I use fixed 13T on 52T on the front chainwheel. As my hub is a flipflop, I would enjoy having a freewheel as an option. But the smallest freewheel available for my hub, has 16T. For me that is unridable with a 52T ring in the front, because i enjoy slow and hard pedaling. Sadly chainrings bigger than 54T are not really available. I would need something like 64-68T for a good ride with a 16T freewheel and a 406 tire. So I will stick to my 13/52 fixed ratio.

The lacing-pattern on my front-wheel is not too much of a trick. And if it is, I will happily reveal it:
I got very inspired by Mr. Cristian Smolik, who is a german guru in terms of bicycle technics. (The man who built a race-bike weighing incredible 3.9kg!). In case of my steel swift it is ofcourse more about the idea than saving weight. My bike shows 10.5kg on the scale. 
To result the pattern, shown on the images below, just follow the logic of a classic double crossed lacing, but skip every third hole. It will be a good idea to close the holes of the missing spokes to avoid dirt getting inside. I'll do that with some simple adhesive film soon.
I also experimented with triple crossing, but due to the small wheel diameter the spokes got terribly bent in the area of the flanges. Probably even a nifty SINGLE crossed 24 spokes on 36 holes pattern would work. I will try that next time.
PS.: I used the same lacing-pattern on BOTH wheels of my Auto-Mini 20" race-bike (6 gear sprocket). Works great! 36 spokes seem far too much on 20"...
					