
Hi James and other Swifties

Peter Reich told me about this forum long after I'd ordered a frameset from him.  I'd wanted a folder frameset to build up a folding touring bike and no other manufacturer  (Bike Friday, Moulton, Dahon, PBW etc) would sell me just the frameset.  So about this time a year ago, I ordered an unpainted frameset from Peter and assembled the bike - after frame mods - over the Aussie winter.  I enjoyed putting it together so here's the history.

A local company down here – GripSport – specialises in frame repairs and welding dropouts to frames with no disk brake tabs. Jon Weaving undertook to weld disk brake tabs onto the fork and rear dropout/seat stay to the IS 2000 disk brake mounting standard. He also powder coated the frame in my choice of colour.

Besides the disk brake tabs, I added a 4" after market quill extender. I could have used a stem with an acute rise but I prefer a flat [little rise] stem – especially with drop bars.  I have long legs but an average torso so I needed the handlebars to be higher tham I could achieve with the normal riser.

I had hoped to use a bar end shifter to change the internal 3 speed hub gears but it was too difficult to get the shifting right so I used SRAM’s 3 speed twist shifter attached to the drop bar using a HubBub twist shift adaptor.

Using the 3 speed hub, road cluster and 20" tyres, I have a gear range of 105 to 22 gear inches, which is ideal as far as I’m concerned. It would be worthwhile replacing the cable guide under the ‘top tube’ with a model that handles three (rather than two) cables. Cable ties are a wonderful thing though, for the rest of the cable routing.

The bike rides a treat; steering is a little ‘quicker’ than my full size bike and the disk brakes are fabulous. Next time I’m bombing down 17+ km of twisty mountain road with a 9 – 11 per cent grades, I won’t be thinking about overheated rims and tyres blowing off. The full specifications for the bike are shown below if you’re interested in the detail.

The folding, disk braked, 20 inch (406 mm bead diameter) touring bike

Frameset : Aluminium XOOTR Swift Folder
Fork:  Rigid chrome moly with after market chrome moly disk brake tabs welded to fork leg
Rear Triangle:  After market aluminium disk tabs welded to dropout and chainstay
Headset:  Chris King 2-Nut
Steerer : Chrome moly with after market 4" extension
Stem : FSA OS 115 – 100 mm, +/- 10o rise
Handlebars:  Aluminium FSA Wing Pro drop bars, 42 cm 
Bar Tape: Red
Brakes :  Avid BB7 cable activated road disks, 160 mm (mechanical)
Brake levers:  Cane Creek SCR 5c (compact), Black
Shifter – SRAM 3x hub: SRAM 3 speed twist shifter mounted on HubBub (Rohloff twist shifter) adaptor for drop bars
Shifter – rear derailleur:  9 speed Dura Ace bar end
Derailleur – rear:  Shimano Ultegra RS6600 short cage
Cranks:  FSA Gossamer 175 mm, aluminium
Chainring:  FSA Pro Road Compact, 46 tooth
Bottom bracket: FSA Mega Exo
Chain:  SRAM PC59 9-speed with Power Link
Cassette:  Shimano (custom) 11-12-13-14-16-18-21-24-28
Hub – rear:  SRAM 3x9 Dual Drive, 36h, disk compatible, with Click Box
Hub – front:  Shimano XT, disk compatible
Rims:  Velocity Fusion 36h, 406 mm bead diameter
Tyres:  Continental Grand Prix, 28-406
Pedals:  Shimano SPD M920 double entry
Saddle:  Selle Italia Flite Gel Flow

I've been trying to attach some other photos, but the file size is too big.  When I find out how to make the images smaller, I'll post them on the forum.  I logged ont this forum today for the first time and I wish I'd done it a long time ago; may have saved me some heartache .  It's been a great read and I hope it continues.  Sorry it's taken so long to get the details to the thread.
					