
Hi big boy phil

Very close in my opinion.  See my posts/pics on page 33 (#805, #813) and page 34 (#828, #831).  You can certainly run Ultegra components on most of it.  Here are the compromises you may have to make.

(0) You'll need the aluminium XOOTR Swift frameset with the rear derailer hanger (unless you put in a special order with Peter =>  or the Center for Appropriate Transport =>  if you're going down the all steel path).

(1) No front derailleur - although you could fit a double chainring and shift from the big to little chainring by hand - there's a reference to that somewhere in this thread and it's the way they used to do it a long time ago.

(2) Gearing:  You're going to need either (a) much larger chainrings than the normal 53/39 crankset or (b) much smaller sprockets.  Bike Friday sell sell large chainrings; not sure if they'll fit the Ultegra cranks.  TA Specialities also provide outsize chainrings.  Alternatively, you could run Shimano's Capreo rear cassette (9-26 teeth). Bike Friday and Moulton have modifed this cassette so it runs from 9-28 or 9-32.  However, if you do this, you'll need the Capreo rear hub.  If you use just one front chainring, the Ultegra short cage derailer should be adequate; if you end up with two chainrings, you'll need the long cage version.

(3) Brakes.  I don't think that Shimano's dual pivot brakes will fit.  I'm not at home so I can't check.  If you decide to run with drop bars and Shimano Ultegra 'brifters', then you have 3 options to use V brakes with these levers. (a) use a (inline?) Travel Agent (b) use Tektro mini v-brakes (c) use one of the new low profile cantilevers.  I'd use Tektro's top of the line mini Vs if I was going down this path.  I've read mixed reviews about Travel Agents and the low profile cantis from Avid, Tektro, Cane Creek, when fitted as a rear brake, tend to catch your heel when your pedaling.

The other option is to use Diacompe/Diatech 287 V brake specific brake levers with a bar end shifter.  See my post above (#831). You might also like to check out the information on Alex Wetmore's bicycle pages => , especially about small wheeled bikes/folders.

You can build up wheels on narrow rims (Alex, Velocity, Sun) and use narrow, high pressure tyres from either Schwalbe or Continental.

Look forward to seeing how you go.

OziSwift
					