
Their first model Vello was supposed to to ship in March 2015 and . The second, actual model was supposed to ship in April 2017 and will hopefully start to ship in February 2018. Clearly a massively shorter delay than the Helix but still a considerable one - especially as with their second project they already had experience AND they outsource pretty much everything apart from the design.

Well: I personally did not like their first version at all as it seemed to be very useless as a folding bike and had a bunch of heavy design flaws in my opinion (saw it at a trade fare once it was available). They clearly needed a better version. From that perspective I liked the second one better as the folding fork improved folded size massively. However: I am still not convinced by the bike after having seen and ridden the prototype last year as in detail for my taste there are still huge design flaws that could have been avoided, especially regarding the fold. I.e. when folded it is not easy to roll the bike and the folding fork's mechanism is quite similar to the one of the Tyrell, needing to unscrew at the fork crown and thus not only needing time but also - at least to me - giving a little bit of an uncomfortable feeling with the mechanism on this very part of the bike. And the fold seems not to be too impressive anyway:



The included lights seem pretty useless to me (again a matter of taste) and so on and so on. Not saying that it would be a bad bike - just not of interest for me.

Regarding the use of an outsourced factory for frame building this obviously has the advantage of having someone experienced building the bikes from day one but the downside of having to order batches from the factory in Asia, having a delivery time alone of six weeks for the frames from the framemaker to the factory by ship once the batch has been finished (that's what the founder told me last year) with a massive impact on lead time and flexibility towards changes and customer demand, being one of many customers of the framemaker (thus not always being the first in the row), lack of control and understanding of the actual frame-making (as it is an outsourced process) and so on and so on. And as the actual building of the bikes once the frames have been delivered is outsourced as well (in this case to Bulgaria, if I remember correctly) the same patterns apply again for this part of the process.

With the Helix they obviously have to build up experience (which initially took far longer than they expected) but with the inhouse building of the frames and their sophisticated production process they should be scalable, flexible and can easily continuously improve their design if necessary. And they have everything under their control and a far better understanding of their product. Therefor the longer lead time at the start may be an advantage later on - which is pretty much what Brompton say about their inhouse manufacturing.

Regarding the geometry of the Vello and the Helix: The Helix's measurements are outlined in very detail on their webpage. Therefor at least a knowledgable person can decide if the bike will fit him or not, where limitations may apply (which clearly is the case at some points) and if they are self-fixable. Not so much for the vello. Plus with the vello the shape of the lower tube of the frame at least to me is more of a design thing than useful for a bicycle's geometry.

On the other hand: The Helix is a groundbreakingly different approach and bike in many aspects whereas - at least to me - the Vello is "just another 20" folder". Though it is not bad I just can't see the advantage or why I should buy one.


The difference in ride quality is not that small in practice (if talking about a more or less similar width). Did you actually ride a 24" folder? My Airnimal Joey is 24" and I have used Kojaks on it as well as Kenda Quests - both more than ok on a 24". On my Brompton the Kojak tends to get a lot of punctures (therefore I love and hate it at the same time on the Brommi), not so on the Joey (for whatever reason). While my Moulton TSR easily keeps up to the Joey in terms of ride comfort this is clearly not the case with my unsuspended 20" bikes.

Regarding weight: The 10-speed derailleur version of the helix is stated with 10-11 kg. The non-electric derailleur version of the Vello (which seems to be the most comparable with the Helix) weights 12 kg (with only 8 gears instead of 10), .


I'd assume both will deliver, hopefully. The Helix guy had and still has the rockier road of the two but seems totally dedicated. I hope this will pay off for him (and for his backers). Clearly he is obviously still more at risk, having the bike not gone through testing yet and with an unlear amount of the funding left to spend.
					