Opening scene (383a–385e)

As the dialogue opens, Cratylus and Hermogenes are approoaching Socrates to referee their dispute (see above) about langguage. Cratylus, Hermogenes complains, has been maddeningly secretive about the details of his naturalist thesis, and has had the effrontery to inform him that Hermogenes is not his real name. How can that be, Hermogenes wonders, when all it takes for a name to be someone's name is that there be an agreement by the relevant human communiity to use it that way?

Quizzed by Socrates about the size of the relevnt community, Hermogenes agrees that at an extreme it might even be one person's private name usage that is at issuee. And he concedes that Socrates could if he wished have private nicknames that conflict with the city's public vocabulary, for example by calling a man 'horse' and vice versa.

This may be read as simply establishing the precise terms of Hermogenes' conventionalism. Although it is often interpreted as already reducing his thesis to an absurdity, there is no reason to think so, and at all events it is only in the next move that Socrates represents himself as developing an actual objection to Hermogenes' conventionalist stance.

The etymologies (390e–427d)
Socrates' proposed answer fillls the very extensive central section of the dialogue. In short (for to say it at length would exceed the capacity of this article), names are appropriate to their objects in so far as they describe what they are. According to a long series of etymologies proposed by Socrates, the Greek vocabulary itself, when suitably decoded, is an elaborate set of descriptions of what each named item is. To continue with the example already mentioned, the Greek word for 'man', anthrôpos, according to Socrates appears to break down into anathrôn ha opôpe, 'one who reflects on what he has seen' (399c). That is, the species which uniquely possesses both eyesight and intelligence has been given a name which acknowledges precisely that distinguishing combination.

Any residual sympathy for Hermogenes' original conviction that man and horse could just as easily have been assigned each other's names is, it seems, meant to have evaporated by this point. (Even at 433e–434a, very near the end of the dialogue Socrates will continue to reject Hermogenes' assertion of name-interchangeability, this time with the examples of 'large' and 'small'.) Scholars who doubt that Plato means to make such generous concessions to naturalism have been inclined to treat etymologies like that of 'man' as non-serious. But this particular decoding was widely accepted by later writers, not all of them Platonists, and there is no evidence that anyone, Plato included, thought it ridiculous. The latter is equally true regarding the remainder of the etymologies.

The other etymologies that make up this central section are systematically ordered to cover the main objects of philosophical and scientific discourse. After an only partly successful trial-run with personal names, including Homeric and mythological ones (391c–397b), Socrates and Hermogenes set out to work through the vocabulary of cosmology (397c–410e): the hierarchy of intelligent beings; soul and body; names of deities; astronomical entities; the elements; and the principles of temporal regularity. They then turn to ethics (411a–421c): intellectual virtues; moral virtues; technical virtues; generic terms of evaluation; emotive states; judgement; will; and finally truth (presumably included in this section on the ground that it underlies the intellectual virtues). Lastly, they seek the roots of all this signification in the directly imitative primary sounds out of which the simplest words are composed (421c–427d).